README.md, before:

<h1><img width="32" height="32" alt="claude-icon" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39d92075-ade9-47f8-9999-8ab7369e6257" />&nbsp; Claude Code Context Menu</h1>

Right-click context menu entries for **"Open with Claude Code"** and **"Resume Chat with Claude"** on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

| Entry | What it does |
|-------|-------------|
| **Open with Claude Code** | Opens a terminal in the selected folder and starts `claude` |
| **Resume Chat with Claude** | Opens a terminal in the selected folder and runs `claude --resume` (interactive session picker) |

## Windows

<img width="510" height="397" alt="CONTEXT_MENU" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/abd7f80a-2bc7-4009-83df-c34e101fd85f" />

Double-click **`windows/install.cmd`**.

The installer auto-detects your setup and walks you through everything:
- Auto-detects Windows Terminal vs CMD
- On Windows 11, offers to download and install the [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0) if needed, then builds a shell extension for the top-level right-click menu
- Adds entries to the classic context menu on any Windows version
- Restarts Explorer automatically so entries appear immediately

On Windows 11 with .NET 8 SDK + [Developer Mode](ms-settings:developers), entries appear in **both** the top-level right-click menu and the classic "Show more options" menu. Without those, entries still appear in the classic menu.

**Uninstall:** Double-click `windows/uninstall.cmd`.

## macOS

<img width="374" height="609" alt="Screenshot 2026-02-19 at 4 49 48 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f48ba6e-150a-4250-919e-72691ed7b499" />

Download **ClaudeCodeMenu.dmg** from the [latest release](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-context-menu/releases/latest), open it, and drag **Claude Code Menu** to Applications.

1. Launch **Claude Code Menu** — helper scripts install automatically
2. Click **"Enable Finder Extension in System Settings"**
3. Toggle on **Claude Code Menu** under Added Extensions
4. Right-click any file or folder in Finder — entries appear at the top level with the Claude icon

**Uninstall:** Move Claude Code Menu to Trash. To also remove helper scripts:
```bash
rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Scripts/com.anthropic.ClaudeCodeMenu.FinderExtension
```

<details>
<summary>Alternative: Quick Actions (no app install)</summary>

```bash
bash macos/install.sh
```

Creates two Finder Quick Actions in `~/Library/Services/`. They appear under right-click → **Quick Actions** submenu (not top-level).

Uninstall: `bash macos/uninstall.sh`
</details>

## Linux

```bash
bash linux/install.sh
```

The script detects installed file managers and configures each:

| File manager | Location | Icons |
|-------------|----------|-------|
| **Nautilus** (GNOME Files) | Right-click → Scripts | No (Nautilus limitation) |
| **Dolphin** (KDE) | Right-click context menu | Yes |
| **Nemo** (Cinnamon/Mint) | Right-click context menu | Yes |

The icon is installed to `~/.local/share/icons/claude-code.png`.

Terminal detection falls back through: `gnome-terminal` → `x-terminal-emulator` → `xterm`.

**Uninstall:**
```bash
bash linux/uninstall.sh
```

## Project structure

```
claude-context-menu/
├── icons/
│   └── claude-icon.png        Icon for all platforms
├── windows/
│   ├── install.cmd            Double-click to install
│   ├── uninstall.cmd          Double-click to uninstall
│   └── modern/                Shell extension source (C#/.NET 8)
├── macos/
│   ├── ClaudeCodeMenu/        Finder Sync Extension (Swift, builds DMG)
│   ├── install.sh             Quick Actions fallback
│   └── uninstall.sh
└── linux/
    ├── install.sh             bash linux/install.sh
    └── uninstall.sh
```

## Prerequisites

- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed and available as `claude` in your terminal

Commit message:

Adds Windows installer and context menu entries
Adds an Inno Setup installer for Windows, enabling easy deployment of context menu entries for "Open with Claude Code" and "Resume Chat with Claude".

The installer handles:
- Detection of Windows Terminal, Developer Mode, and .NET 8 Runtime
- Registration of classic and modern (Win11) context menu entries
- Generation of an AppxManifest for modern menu integration
- Uninstallation, including removal of the AppxPackage and registry keys

Also updates README with installation instructions.

Adds `.claude/settings.local.json` to configure Claude's permissions.

Ignores the `windows/Output` directory.

README.md, after:

<h1><img width="32" height="32" alt="claude-icon" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39d92075-ade9-47f8-9999-8ab7369e6257" />&nbsp; Claude Code Context Menu</h1>

Right-click context menu entries for **"Open with Claude Code"** and **"Resume Chat with Claude"** on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

| Entry | What it does |
|-------|-------------|
| **Open with Claude Code** | Opens a terminal in the selected folder and starts `claude` |
| **Resume Chat with Claude** | Opens a terminal in the selected folder and runs `claude --resume` (interactive session picker) |

## Windows

<img width="510" height="397" alt="CONTEXT_MENU" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/abd7f80a-2bc7-4009-83df-c34e101fd85f" />

Download **ClaudeCodeContextMenu-Setup.exe** from the [latest release](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-context-menu/releases/latest) and run it.

1. Run the installer — no admin required
2. A **System Detection** page shows what was found (Windows Terminal, Developer Mode, .NET 8, etc.)
3. Click through the wizard — classic context menu entries are installed automatically
4. On Windows 11 with [.NET 8 Runtime](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0) + [Developer Mode](ms-settings:developers), entries also appear in the top-level right-click menu
5. Right-click any folder to see **"Open with Claude Code"** and **"Resume Chat with Claude"**

**Uninstall:** Settings → Apps → Installed apps → **Claude Code Context Menu** → Uninstall.

<details>
<summary>Alternative: install from source</summary>

Double-click **`windows/install.cmd`**. This runs the PowerShell installer directly from the repo — it can also download the .NET 8 SDK and build the shell extension on-the-fly.

Uninstall: Double-click `windows/uninstall.cmd`.
</details>

## macOS

<img width="374" height="609" alt="Screenshot 2026-02-19 at 4 49 48 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f48ba6e-150a-4250-919e-72691ed7b499" />

Download **ClaudeCodeMenu.dmg** from the [latest release](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-context-menu/releases/latest), open it, and drag **Claude Code Menu** to Applications.

1. Launch **Claude Code Menu** — helper scripts install automatically
2. Click **"Enable Finder Extension in System Settings"**
3. Toggle on **Claude Code Menu** under Added Extensions
4. Right-click any file or folder in Finder — entries appear at the top level with the Claude icon

**Uninstall:** Move Claude Code Menu to Trash. To also remove helper scripts:
```bash
rm -rf ~/Library/Application\ Scripts/com.anthropic.ClaudeCodeMenu.FinderExtension
```

<details>
<summary>Alternative: Quick Actions (no app install)</summary>

```bash
bash macos/install.sh
```

Creates two Finder Quick Actions in `~/Library/Services/`. They appear under right-click → **Quick Actions** submenu (not top-level).

Uninstall: `bash macos/uninstall.sh`
</details>

## Linux

```bash
bash linux/install.sh
```

The script detects installed file managers and configures each:

| File manager | Location | Icons |
|-------------|----------|-------|
| **Nautilus** (GNOME Files) | Right-click → Scripts | No (Nautilus limitation) |
| **Dolphin** (KDE) | Right-click context menu | Yes |
| **Nemo** (Cinnamon/Mint) | Right-click context menu | Yes |

The icon is installed to `~/.local/share/icons/claude-code.png`.

Terminal detection falls back through: `gnome-terminal` → `x-terminal-emulator` → `xterm`.

**Uninstall:**
```bash
bash linux/uninstall.sh
```

## Project structure

```
claude-context-menu/
├── icons/
│   ├── claude-icon.png        Icon for all platforms
│   └── claude-icon.ico        Windows icon (used by installer)
├── windows/
│   ├── installer.iss          Inno Setup script → .exe installer
│   ├── install.cmd            Double-click to install (from source)
│   ├── uninstall.cmd          Double-click to uninstall
│   └── modern/                Shell extension source (C#/.NET 8)
├── macos/
│   ├── ClaudeCodeMenu/        Finder Sync Extension (Swift, builds DMG)
│   ├── install.sh             Quick Actions fallback
│   └── uninstall.sh
└── linux/
    ├── install.sh             bash linux/install.sh
    └── uninstall.sh
```

## Prerequisites

- [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed and available as `claude` in your terminal
